More docs:
1. https://www.educative.io/blog/pods-services-deployments
2. https://www.educative.io/blog/docker-kubernetes-beginners-guide
3. https://kubernetes.io/
4. https://www.educative.io/blog/pods-services-deployments



Kubernetes:

Container Orchestration Tool
We all know how important Containers have become in today’s fast-moving IT world. Pretty much every big organization has moved out of their traditional approach of using virtual machines and started using Containers for deployment.

Kubernetes is an open-source container management (orchestration) tool. It’s container management responsibilities include container deployment, scaling & descaling of containers & container load balancing.


Note: Kubernetes is not a containerization platform. It is a multi-container management solution.

Companies out there maybe using Docker or Rocket or maybe simply Linux containers for containerizing their applications.


Keep in mind that, as the traffic increases, they even have to scale up the number of containers to service the ‘n’ no of requests that come in every second. And, they have to also scale down the containers when the demand is less. Can all this be done natively?

Both Docker Swarm and Kubernetes are popular tools for Container management and orchestration. But, Kubernetes is the undisputed market leader. Partly because it is Google’s brainchild and partly because of its better functionality.


Logically speaking, Docker Swarm is a better option because it runs right on top of Docker right? If I were you, I would have had the same doubt and it would have been my #1 mystery to solve. So, if your thinking the same, read this blog on the comparison between Kubernetes vs Docker Swarm here.
https://www.edureka.co/blog/kubernetes-vs-docker/


Pokemon Go:– Game backend with Kubernetes

# nano /etc/hostname



Kubernetes is an open-source container management platform for deploying and managing containerized workloads. These containerized workloads are the backbone of many modern web apps, acting as packages of applications and dependencies all delivered and stored together.


If Kubernetes is the scheduler, managing each container as they work together, then Docker would be the recruiter, your source of all the containers you could need.



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


Powerful Features of Kubernetes
By now we’ve explored only the bare minimum that Kubernetes has to offer, with a range of capabilities and features you can explore as you continue to learn.

Self-healing capabilities to maintain “desired state” conditions
Autoscaling so you can automatically change the number of running containers, based on CPU utilization or other application-provided metrics.
Extendable to additional functionalities with loadable modules
Management of storage available to applications within the cluster
Allows the storage of confidential information via secret labeling
Easy access to logs and background information
Automated load balancing across nodes
Optimization of component placement for more efficient hardware optimization
Node capability management, so that components with specialized node requirements (such as apps requiring GPU hardware) are run on nodes with the required capabilities
Scalability via replica controllers and placement policies
Customization of automated rollouts and rollback policies


Explore these features further with, Advanced Kubernetes Techniques: Monitoring, Logging, Auto-Sclaing, a course by Viktor Farcic.










1. Install
$ sudo su
# apt-get update

# swapoff -a
# nano /etc/fstab


Install kubeadm, Kubelet And Kubectl
Kubelet is the lowest level component in Kubernetes. It’s responsible for what’s running on an individual machine.
Kuebadm is used for administrating the Kubernetes cluster.
Kubectl is used for controlling the configurations on various nodes inside the cluster.


snap

curl -s https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg | sudo apt-key add -

sudo vim /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
deb http://apt.kubernetes.io/ kubernetes-xenial main

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y kubelet kubeadm kubectl kubernetes-cni


# nano /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service.d/10-kubeadm.conf
Environment=”cgroup-driver=systemd/cgroup-driver=cgroupfs”


Steps Only For Kubernetes Master VM (kmaster)


API Server: Our only way to interact with the Cluster. Be it starting or stopping another container (err *pods) or checking current state, logs, etc.
Kubelet: monitors the containers (err *pods) inside a node and communicates with the master node.
*Pods: Initially just think of pods as containers.



https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/
minikube start
minikube is local Kubernetes, focusing on making it easy to learn and develop for Kubernetes.

All you need is Docker (or similarly compatible) container or a Virtual Machine environment, and Kubernetes is a single command away: minikube start


kubectl get nodes
NAME       STATUS    ROLES     AGE       VERSION
minikube   Ready     <none>    11m       v1.9.0
Minikube provides us with a Kubernetes Cluster that has only one node, but remember we do not care how many Nodes there are, Kubernetes abstracts that away, and for us to learn Kubernetes that is of no importance. In the next section, we will start with our first Kubernetes resource [DRUM ROLLS] the Pod.


