Pods


These are the smallest unit of application in Kubernetes. Pods represent a single, isolated instance of an application and the resources needed to execute it, each having their own IP address.

init containers?

each pod could be composed of a single container or multiple containers, depending on its complexity.




But do we really need to run two containers in one pod? Erm.. Usually, you run only one container and that’s what we will do in our examples.
Each pod has a unique IP address in the Kubernetes cluster
Containers in a pod share the same volume*, same ip, port space, IPC namespace.


apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod                                            # 1
metadata:
  name: sa-frontend                                  # 2
spec:                                                # 3
  containers:
    - image: rinormaloku/sentiment-analysis-frontend # 4
      name: sa-frontend                              # 5
      ports:
        - containerPort: 80                          # 6
Kind: specifies the kind of the Kubernetes Resource that we want to create. In our case, a Pod.
Name: defines the name for the resource. We named it sa-frontend.
Spec is the object that defines the desired state for the resource. The most important property of a Pods Spec is the Array of containers.
Image is the container image we want to start in this pod.
Name is the unique name for a container in a pod.
Container Port:is the port at which the container is listening. This is just an indicator for the reader (dropping the port doesn’t restrict access).


kubectl create -f sa-frontend-pod.yaml
If it is still in ContainerCreating you can execute the above command with the argument --watch to update the information when the Pod is in Running State.

kubectl port-forward sa-frontend 88:80
The wrong way to scale up


Pods are the smallest deployable units of computing that you can create and manage in Kubernetes.
A Pod (as in a pod of whales or pea pod) is a group of one or more containers, with shared storage and network resources, and a specification for how to run the containers.

Note: While Kubernetes supports more container runtimes than just Docker, Docker is the most commonly known runtime, and it helps to describe Pods using some terminology from Docker.
https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes/

Usually you don't need to create Pods directly, even singleton Pods. Instead, create them using workload resources such as Deployment or Job. If your Pods need to track state, consider the StatefulSet resource.


Pods that run a single container. The "one-container-per-Pod" model is the most common Kubernetes use case; in this case, you can think of a Pod as a wrapper around a single container; Kubernetes manages Pods rather than managing the containers directly.

Pods that run multiple containers that need to work together. A Pod can encapsulate an application composed of multiple co-located containers that are tightly coupled and need to share resources. These co-located containers form a single cohesive unit of service—for example, one container serving data stored in a shared volume to the public, while a separate sidecar container refreshes or updates those files. The Pod wraps these containers, storage resources, and an ephemeral network identity together as a single unit.

Each Pod is meant to run a single instance of a given application. If you want to scale your application horizontally (to provide more overall resources by running more instances), you should use multiple Pods, one for each instance. In Kubernetes, this is typically referred to as replication. Replicated Pods are usually created and managed as a group by a workload resource and its controller.

See Pods and controllers for more information on how Kubernetes uses workload resources, and their controllers, to implement application scaling and auto-healing.

Pods natively provide two kinds of shared resources for their constituent containers: networking and storage.

Note: Restarting a container in a Pod should not be confused with restarting a Pod. A Pod is not a process, but an environment for running container(s). A Pod persists until it is deleted.


This can be advantageous as all containers within the same pod can communicate without the need for additional setup from the user.

These pods, however, are highly isolated and cannot communicate with other pods. This is where our next component, services, comes into the picture.


Pod Lifecycle

https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/

Here are some examples of workload resources that manage one or more Pods:

Deployment
StatefulSet
DaemonSet

https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/pod

Pod templates




 If a pod can have more than one container, how does it work? There are some limits we need to be aware of. A pod has the following:

A single IP address
Share localhost
A shared IPC space
A shared network port range
Shared volumes



The containers in a pod talk to each other via local host, whereas pod-to-pod communication is done via services. Pods are a great way for you to deploy an application, but there is some limitation to the pod resource type. A pod is a single entity, and if it fails, it cannot restart itself; this won’t suit most use cases, as we want our applications to be highly available. Don’t worry, Kubernetes has this issue solved, and we will look at how to tackle high availability further on in the post.

https://www.educative.io/blog/pods-services-deployments
